# Axioms and Basic Examples
Main objects of group theory: groups.

A group is a set G, together with a binary function $*:G\circ G \rarr G$ (this means a rule for mapping a pair of [elements](../terms/element.md) of $G$  into an element of $G$ ) satisfying the following four [axioms](../terms/axiom.md)


* (Closure) For any elements $g$ and $h$ in $G$, the result $g\circ h$ is also in $G$.
* (Identity) There is an element $e \in G | \forall g \in G, e\circ g = g , g\circ e = g$ 
* (inverse) F £20,772*c g^{-1} = e$ and  $g^{-1}\circ g = e$ 
* (Associativity) For any elements $g,h$ and $j \in G$ we have $(g \circ h) \circ j = g \circ (h \circ j)$

To specify a group, you must first specify the underlying set $G$ and the operation, and then make sure the four group axioms hold.
For example, if $G$ is the set of integers, and the operation is addition, we get a group. The identity is 0, and the inverse of 10 is −10.
Suppose instead that $G$ is the set of integers and the operation is multiplication.
Explanation
This system fails the “inverses” axiom.


The identity element for multiplication is 1.But 2 does not have a [multiplicative inverse](../terms/multiplication-inverse.md). That is, there is no integer $x$ such that $2*x = 1$
In fact, most integers don't have multiplicative inverses that are also integers.

Remember, the inverse has to be a member of $G$. But to show this isn't a group, all we need to find is one member of $G$ without an inverse.

Number systems are great for getting used to the axioms, but groups were not invented to generalize them. The proper generalization of number systems are rings and fields, which are often studied after groups.
Three very important group examples:
* Dihedral groups
* Symmetric groups
* Cyclic groups

In particular, the dihedral group $D$ is the group of symmetries for a regular n-gon which includes reflections and rotations. Note that there is a different dihedral group for each integer $n≥3$


We usually use “multiplicative notation” for groups (i.e. gh for the operation applied to g and h;3g 3 for ggg). But since the cyclic group operation is defined by modular addition, we use additive notation here. So when we combine group elements x and ∈4,y∈Z 4, we write the result as +, x+y, not xy.